>> David Khourshid: For the last exercise,
I want to talk about testing,
because testing is very important,
of course, as you all know.
And when we're testing application logic,
this is where all
of the principles that we talked
about really come into play.
Where events are the actual source of
truth, state updates are immutable and
represented in pure functions,
and also doing things like having
predictable declarative side effects and
normalized data, et cetera.
So usually when we're testing react
applications, we're really testing the ui.
That's the normal de facto way of testing.
We're using testing library or vTest,
we're rendering our application and,
and then we're clicking buttons or
filling out fields virtually just
to see that everything is working.
Now these kinds of tests,
which I consider to be a form of end
to end tests, are very valuable.
So I do recommend, like, don't get rid
of them, they're extremely useful.
However, they can distract from testing
the actual pure business logic.
And so this is why when you have a,
a pure function that
represents your business logic,
it is extremely easy to test,
because the whole premise of
testing is that given an input,
we want some sort of expected output
when it goes through this function.
And that's exactly what
a reducer can provide to us.
So for instance, if we have a booking
reducer and we pass in the initial state
and the action that happens,
it doesn't matter how that action happens,
we just want to know that the actual
business logic is correct.
So we can assert that different
parts of the new state are correct.
So that we could say the current
step should be hotel after this, and
that when we pass in the mock flight, then
the selected flight is that mock flight.
So just to give you an example,
we have a booking reducer here.
And again, you can test the UI if you
want to, but when the app logic changes,
for example, let's say that you add
more steps to the booking flow, or
you change some sort of internal
logic within the booking reducer,
then the UI tests actually become
pretty difficult to update.
And that's because you're not just
dealing directly with logic, you,
you're dealing with ui,
which sort of masks the underlying logic.
So if we take a look at
the booking reducer,
we see a lot of different steps over here.
Like we're searching flights,
then we're searching the hotels,
we're updating the hotels.
There's just many different ways
that we could go through this flow.
And so once we have the initial state,
we could actually just test entire flows,
especially with the help of
AI assisted coding tools and
just use that pure function to ensure that
we are on the correct state given
the events that are passed in.
So that's why I actually like doing
let state instead of const state,
because then I could just reassign it.
So we could say state
equals booking reducer.
Let's make a mock flight.
So const model mockFlight.
So let's say that we select
a flight from a mock airline.
We could actually continue through this
and just continue to the entire flow.
So we can expect that the next
step is the hotel search and
that the selected flight
is the mock flight.
Then when we go back to change flight,
we could assert that we're actually
going this is not the happy path.
But we could assert that when
the user decides to go back,
we're on that previous step and then
we could just keep going through there,
maybe doing a mock hotel, and we could
just basically test entire flows this way.
And so this is something where even
if your UI completely changes,
the testing logic for this application
is going to be exactly the same.
And so that's why when you're
thinking about doing unit tests,
really consider putting application logic
into that valuable bucket of
things that you should unit test.
So as you can see,
it's very straightforward.
We're dealing only with domain specific
things and we're not really worried
about how do we get to different
buttons or inputs in the ui.
So I consider testing reducers
a very valuable approach because
you can test flows like this.
Any questions on testing
application logic?
>> Speaker 2: Have you had experience
with Cursor writing unit tests and
seeing if it has made some
relatively improvements on
how it does implementation of your tests?
>> David Khourshid: I think that when
you keep things simple, for example,
I let cursor generate all of these tests
over here and they all look to be correct.
Cursor is really good at that,
especially because it does have
reference to this booking reducer.
Everything is in one central place and
it understands really well what
the flow of this is going to be.
However, when it comes to actual UI tests,
I've seen that it does get
some things wrong a lot.
Or really it actually makes
the wrong assumptions.
So if your UI is in any bit difference
than what Cursor would expect
from a normal ui, then it might
suggest clicking the wrong thing or
filling in the wrong field, or just
doing whatever it wants with the tests.
And the reason for that from an LLM
perspective is that when you're dealing
with UI, you're dealing with multiple
components in multiple different files.
And so Cursor has to go through the extra
step, if it even does that at all,
of piecing together all these files and
relating that data together rather
than just having it all in one place.